[THEME MUSIC]
>> Where ancient wisdom and
modern research converge,
Divine Science emerges.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Could the geometric
symmetry of snowflakes,
the intricate patterns of
our DNA, and the spiral
shapes found in nature reveal
an embedded code of existence
intricately woven
into the very fabric
of the universe and ourselves?
In recognizing this universal
language of geometry
that connects the vast
cosmos to our core,
how might the exploration
of these patterns
not only deepen our
understanding of the universe,
but also unite us,
allowing our differences
to enrich the tapestry
of human experience?
>> Geometry, if
you break it down,
geo means Gaia or Mother
Earth, and metri means measure.
So actually geometry is
the fundamental foundation
of everything that
exists in the universe.
From the stars, galaxies
to the cells in our body
to our movements to vibrations.
Everything is expressed
in the geometry.
>> Geometry is everywhere
all throughout the universe,
from the microscopic up to
the cosmic and the Galactic.
There's a spiritual
meaning and archetypal
meaning behind each geometry.
And that meaning is
where it becomes sacred,
because its source, its origin
is in the mind of the all,
and it has a purpose.
And that purpose to find a form
and that form has a function.
And that functionality is what
creates order in the universe
so that things can be
built. If we didn't
have these orders
and these structures,
then the universe
wouldn't build anything.
It would just be a bunch of
scattered particles floating
around.
And there would be no order.
There would be no forms that
were built beyond the particle
level.
So the sacred geometry
is like the scaffolding
upon which the universe
and forms are built.
>> Visualizing the universe as
scaffolding through the lens
of geometry introduces the
concept of the Platonic solids,
first explored in ancient Greece
by Plato who linked these forms
to the classical elements
of earth, air, fire, water,
and ether.
These associations over time
have enriched the solids
with layers of philosophical
and spiritual significance,
extending far beyond
their physical geometry,
connecting the tangible
aspects of reality
with the intangible realms
of thought and spirit,
inviting us to ponder
our interconnectedness
within the cosmos.
>> When we look at
the principal solids,
what are called the Platonic
solids, or in some cases,
they are called the
solids of sacred geometry,
what we see is a progression of
more complex patterns beginning
with a tetrahedron, a
three-sided pyramid,
which is the most fundamental
building block of everything
that we know in our universe.
And then it goes to
an octahedral, a cube,
a dodecahedron,
and an icosahedron.
So we look at the
complexity of our world
and of our bodies, of
the universe around us,
and we begin to apply the
fundamental principles
that our ancestors left for us,
including the Platonic solids
and sacred geometry as the
nature of those solids.
What we see is that there are
additional principles that
are in play that allow just
a few fundamental patterns
to build out the
complexity of the world
that we see around us.
>> Every three-dimensional
volumetric form is built upon
just five, five platonic solids.
These become like
the building blocks.
And they combine and maybe
truncate one and then combine.
So I see sacred geometry as
like the language of creation.
Then it's just a matter
of combining them
together into
words and sentences
to create everything
that we see around us.
>> Sacred geometry is considered
sacred because it is seen
as the blueprint of creation,
an underlying code that informs
the fabric of reality itself.
Embodying harmony,
proportion, and balance
where mathematics
meets mysticism,
and the material converges
with the spiritual.
>> We live those geometric
patterns in the womb
of our mother.
And here's what I mean by that.
If you look under a microscope
and you see a single human ovum
after it is fertilized,
the sperm and the egg come
together, they create the
ovum, that first cell when
it divides into two cells,
it is two-dimensional.
If you were to draw a line
from the nucleus of one cell
to the other, it's
a straight line.
That's a two-dimensional
representation.
When each of those two cells
divide and create four cells,
those four cells
will always follow
the same geometric pattern
in the womb of our mothers.
And this is the first
three-dimensional pattern
that we live as an embryo
in our mother's womb.
If you take the nucleus from
each of those four cells
and you connect them,
what you have is the first
of the Platonic solids.
You have the tetrahedron.
When those four cells
then divide again,
we have eight cells.
And what we find is
not one tetrahedron,
but two interlocking
tetrahedrons.
And what is sometimes
called a star tetrahedron
in three dimensions.
And then we go on from there.
We literally live the
Platonic solids in sequence
as we evolve and develop
in our mother's womb,
we live the sacred
geometry of the universe
in the first moments and hours
of our lives in this world.
>> The Fibonacci sequence, a
series of numbers where each is
the sum of the two preceding,
presents a universal pattern
discovered in Indian mathematics
by 200 BC for its application
in Sanskrit poetry.
As the sequence
progresses, the ratio
between consecutive
Fibonacci numbers
approaches the golden ratio,
a mathematical constant
known for its aesthetic
and harmonious properties.
This principle not only
dictates the 3D structure of DNA
aligning with the
golden ratio, but also
manifests in human biology
and the broader natural world,
showcasing the
interconnectedness
of all creation through
a mathematical lens.
>> It's interesting to note that
the diameter of the DNA is 21
angstroms.
And if we count the turnings,
we will get to 34 angstroms.
That's two factors of
the Fibonacci series.
And also if you look at,
there's different DNA.
There's DNA B, different DNA
A, different forms of DNA.
Each one of those actually
has a sacred geometry.
Sometimes the pentagon,
sometimes simply a spiral.
There's all different
forms of geometry
when you look at it head on.
>> Spiral galaxies form a sacred
geometry based on the Fibonacci
sequence.
And Fibonacci sequencing
is not just in the spiral,
it's also within us.
The length of this
part of our finger
to the next part of the
digit to the next part, these
are all five ratios from
the finger to the palm,
from the palm to the forearm,
from the forearm to the bicep,
from the arm to
the leg, and so on.
We have this golden ratio,
this phi ratio all over us.
You see the same thing in shells
and in palm fronds or ferns
in the rose, the sunflower,
you see it all over it.
It's going to be out there
in all the other planets
and galaxies as well.
>> Nature displays a wealth
of geometric patterns.
Hexagons in snowflakes,
Fibonacci sequences
in flower petals, fractal
designs in coastlines,
and the spherical
shapes of planets.
These patterns hint at universal
mathematical principles
underlying all
growth and structure.
How might this understanding
of nature's inherent geometry
lead us to an
interconnected understanding
that spans from the microscopic
world to the vast universe?
- When we look at a
satellite image of the Earth
and we see the rivers
and the tributaries
that feed into those rivers
and the creeks and the streams
that all feed into these from a
mountain range onto the plains,
for example.
And you take that photograph
and you look at that
and then you place that
next to an image of the root
system of a tree or
the branches of a tree,
or the bronchial system
of the human respiratory
system of our lungs, or
our circulatory system.
If you don't know what
you're looking at,
you would be very hard
pressed to determine
which one is biological, which
one is from the satellite,
and which image is from
a tree or the roots,
because the fractal
pattern is playing out
so beautifully in these
images, the same pattern,
different levels.
So another example
of this is when
we look at a neuron
in the human brain
and we look at a bolt
of lightning flashing
through the sky, both of them
are electricity following
preferred pathways,
preferential pathways that
allow that electricity
to express in the body.
It is through the cellular
nature of the neuron
in the atmosphere.
It is because of the
electrical nature
of the atmosphere that
allows that bolt of lightning
to travel.
>> As an example, leaf, if
you look under the microscope
and you see the intricate
patterns of the leaf,
and then you take our skin, the
human skin, it looks identical.
If you look into the
brain neural network,
it looks identical to
the galaxies and neural
networks in the stars as well.
Geometries impact reaches
beyond physical shape and form
into the realms of
frequency and energy.
The flower of life
is a prime example
with its multiple
overlapping circles.
This structure is the origin
of all geometric forms,
including the Platonic solids.
It emanates energetic vibrations
that can be quantified.
Radionics devices harness
scalar wave technology
to measure these
vibrations, offering insight
into the profound impact
of geometric frequencies
on reality.
>> We actually measured
the vibrational frequency
of the flower of life.
And if you were to imagine
that the scale that we apply
in our human reality goes
from 0 to 1,000, 1,000
being the highest frequency
possible for the human
experience, flower
of life resonates
at the frequency of 1,000.
And again, we're not speaking
about Hertz frequencies,
because we're using a
different type of scale.
But this is the highest
vibrational frequency
of a flower of life,
which is the sacred shape.
>> And then the Metatron cube is
another one of those that kind
derives from the flower of life.
We just highlight out
certain spheres or circles
that come out and shows more the
triangular kind of, as above so
below and multilayers
very much has
that sort of fractal sort of
nature to it in many ways.
And I see that the flower of
life and Metatron cube they
almost anchor to
different energies
from the Galactic source.
Understanding how geometry
permeates the universe
connects our inner world
with the outer reality.
It provides a structure
for grasping the cosmos
resonating with our
instinct to find patterns
and meaning throughout
the vastness of existence.
>> The meanings that we give
to sacred geometries are not
really-- they're
not our meanings.
They're the meaning
that was originally
given to them by some
intelligence source that
created the universe,
and we rediscover them.
So for example, the sphere
geometrically speaking,
mathematically speaking
is the optimal form
for packing energy into matter.
And so the sphere from a
sacred geometric perspective
actually represents the
physical density level itself.
If you look out into space,
every planet, every star,
every moon is in the
shape of a sphere.
Whereas the cube is very
stable, but it's also
represents our mind.
Our mind likes to put things
in boxes, so to speak.
And it becomes a construct that
we then operate and perceive
through.
The pyramid often
represents the spirit.
It's the Trinity.
It's the mother, father,
child kind of archetype,
or the oneness that then
divides into the feminine
and the masculine.
The triangle always represents
the spiritual realm,
especially when it's
upright, it's ascending.
Whereas the downward triangle
is more about the descending.
It's as above and
the so below, which
you have in the Star
of David, for example.
So every geometry has
its own unique meaning.
>> Recent studies in the
field of regenerative medicine
and tissue engineering show how
geometry influences stem cell
differentiation, opening new
avenues for innovative healing
strategies and
disease treatments.
>> The fascinating thing that's
happening and emerging over
the last several years is the
study of how geometry shapes
the outcome of our
health and well being.
How it can be applied.
And let me give you
a great example.
There was a great study
that was published
looking into exposing stem
cells to different geometrical
patterns.
This is a study that was done
in University of Chicago.
And here are the
fascinating facts.
Every single cell in our
body is absolutely identical.
So the question becomes,
what is the guiding
force behind our stem cells
or behind our very existence
that directs and orchestrates
this beautiful symphony
of cells becoming bones, fat
cells, our kidney cells, heart
cells.
It looked into exposing stem
cells to two different types
of shapes.
The first group was exposed to
shapes that were like stars.
And it directed the stem cells
to become strong cytokines.
What does it mean?
It means that the
cells became bones.
Now another example
was stem cells
exposed to flower pattern,
geometrical pattern.
And the result was absolutely
drastically different.
Those cells became
loose cytokines
in the presence of flower shape.
And they translated
into becoming fat cells.
So this is a great
example that geometry
is the universal guiding
force that guides information
into materializing of what
it is that we want to see.
>> Based upon this
understanding,
scientists are exploring the use
of geometry as a novel strategy
to combat diseases
caused by viruses.
>> What was done is they've
created an icosahedron,
which is a geometric
DNA nano cage.
So they were able to entrap
this particular virus
and deactivate it.
So this as a result is such
a significant and profound
information for all of
us to know because now we
understand that science is truly
looking into how geometry can
play a significant role
in many of the viruses
that are unfolding
in our daily lives,
and how it can be expressed
in our health and well being.
>> Ancient traditions,
particularly in Egypt
and India, have long recognized
geometry as a foundational
element of their spiritual
and cosmological beliefs.
These cultures saw geometric
principles as not just
mathematical constructs, but
as aligning celestial harmony
with earthly existence through
architecture, art, and healing
practices.
>> The patterns of the universe
is a very important aspect
of my work with Maharishi Mahesh
Yogi who has looked at Veda
and Vedic literature as the
structure of what he calls
the constitution
of the universe.
Structure means-- geometry means
relationship means mathematics
and all of that.
And he has shown how the
syllables of the Veda
actually manifest in a
very sequential fashion,
creating an orderly
structure of the way nature
manifests itself.
So he asked me as
a neuroscientist
and studying human
physiology and anatomy
to look at the structure
of this Vedic sound that
have a structure,
which means a geometry,
and the structure
of the human body.
And what I have found
after years of research
is that there is an
exact correspondence
between the
structure of the Veda
and the structure
of the human body.
And that is an
indication that there
is a basic geometry, which
when assembled together
in one being, which
is a human being,
allows us to experience the full
value of the laws of nature.
The full value of the
constitution of the universe.
And that's why as human
beings, we can get enlightened.
We can experience
totality and wholeness.
It's because the dynamics
of natural law, the dynamics
of the constitution
of the universe
are physically
present within us.
And that is a very
important correlation
between consciousness,
because the dynamics
of the Vedic literature are just
an expression of a cognition
of the reverberations,
the vibrations, the sounds
of the Veda that
have a structure,
but we find them
as the blueprint
of our own human physiology.
>> Sacred geometry serves as
a bridge between our physical
existence and the unseen
dimensions of energy
and consciousness.
This universal language is
embodied in the chakra system
from ancient India, which
features unique geometric
patterns and frequencies
associated with each energy
center, playing a
pivotal role in enhancing
spiritual growth,
physical health,
and emotional well-being.
>> The fascinating aspect about
sacred geometrical symbols is
that they connect us directly
through different chakras
to our physicality.
As a first example, we
will use tetrahedron.
Tetrahedron, it is linked to
your solar plexus, your power
center.
So if you think about
any kind of imbalances
that are linked to
your solar plexus that
would be your digestion,
on another level,
it could be your power center.
This is a very powerful
symbol to begin
to incorporate in your life if
you're having digestive issues.
Example number 2
would be hexahedron.
Hexahedron is a great
example of everything related
to our physical body,
our structure, our bones,
connection to our very
existence on Earth.
So this will be a wonderful
sacred geometrical shape
to begin to incorporate
in your life
if you're having any
kind of aches and pains.
A third example
will be octahedral.
It stands for the
element of air,
and it's like two pyramids.
So one from the top and
one from the bottom.
And it's linked to your heart
center, your heart chakra.
It's all about connection
and understanding
your inner and outer world.
The next example
will be icosahedron.
And icosahedron is
linked to your emotions.
So if you're going through
stressful turbulent times
in your life, this
is a water element.
It's also linked to
your water element.
And it's linked
to your emotions.
The next one is
the dodecahedron.
And that one is linked to
the upper three chakras.
And therefore, what are
some of the imbalances
that can happen there?
But one of the upper chakras
will be your throat chakra.
And it's fascinating that
in the last 10 years,
we almost have an epidemic of
thyroid imbalances in women
across the globe.
So this will be a wonderful
sacred geometrical pattern
to begin to incorporate and
infuse your thyroid, which is
all about speaking your truth.
Your universal truth.
And again, the dodecahedron
is linked to everything
up in the heavens.
It is related to your
higher consciousness.
So what I recommend
doing is visualizing
this beautiful hexahedron coming
into you and wherever you feel
is needed.
So for most people,
if it's a hexahedron,
it's needed in your
skeleton structure,
also in your root chakra.
So you can visualize that
particular sacred geometrical
pattern going in
and being infused.
And helping secure also
with your intention
feeling that safety and
security and stability.
It's providing literally
the four walls.
It's a house that you reside in.
This is your physical
house as well.
Another example would be
to meditate on the symbol
with your intention
of whatever it
is you choose to
support as healing
process in your physical
and emotional body.
So you can visualize
that particular symbol
going into your third
eye and radiating it
wherever it's needed in your
physical system as well.
>> Universal geometry shapes
not only the foundation
of our cosmos, but also
infuses our own world and inner
universe with sacred
patterns and purpose.
But what is its impact
on our daily lives?
And does this ancient wisdom
enrich our personal journeys?
>> There is perfect orderliness
in the unmanifest field
of being, and that
has perfect geometry.
There can be different dynamics
that might show geometries
that are not as perfect.
And that is why we have
suffering and problems.
And if we can realign
the manifest geometry
with the unmanifest
geometry, then we
have perfection in life.
The best way to do
that is to go back
to the perfect
geometry, which is
available in the
transcendental field
of the unmanifest pure
consciousness, which
is our own inner self, which
is our true ultimate self.
And in that is the
constitution of the universe,
the geometry of the universe.
>> When we come to understand
that the core essence
of our three-dimensional world
or our multidimensional world,
the core essence of what builds
up and creates that order is
the sacred geometry.
And when we understand
the sacred part
to the geometry, the meaning,
the purpose behind it
all, we can see that
everything is sacred.
Everything is infused with
that signature of the sacred.
And it allows us to
see the world around us
as meaningful and as
beautiful and as purposeful.
And so I think that
sacred geometry
becomes a lens
through which we can
see a much more alive and
purposeful world around us.
So it's very important to gain
a personal connection with it.
>> At the most fundamental
level of the non-randomness,
whether it's the universe
or it's our bodies,
what we see are patterns.
Patterns of energy.
And those patterns of
energy will always form
in predetermined arrangements
that we call geometry.
And that geometry appears
to be so universal
that it is the governing
principle for everything
from the birth of a star
to the birth of a human
in our mother's womb.
Truly the geometry is
the universal language
that describes the
principles of the world
that we live in today.
The better we
understand our world
and the better we understand
ourselves, the less we
fear the changes that
we see in the world,
the less we fear one another,
and perhaps most of all,
most importantly, the less
we fear our own power.
And I think this is the
value of understanding
the deep relationships
that we have
with the geometry of our
world through the eyes
of our ancestors, as well as
through the eyes of the best
science of the modern world.
>> Amidst the intricate
tapestry of existence,
universal and sacred geometry
stand as timeless guides,
illuminating the path forward
and offering keys to unlock
our potential and foster
unity as humanity.
Thank you for watching
Divine Science
and exploring the
extraordinary connections that
shape our existence.